Create release process (#45)
kyma-project/helm-broker: docs/releasing.md

# Releases

This document describes how the release flow looks like and how to create an `helm-broker` release.

## Release process

Every change in the master branch which passes all checks creates the `latest` tag and triggers the release.

Every tag pushed to the repository triggers a new release.

### Create a release from the master branch

Follow these steps to create a new `helm-broker` release `v0.6.0`:

> 1. Checkout on master and pull the latest changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Checkout the `master` branch and pull the latest changes:
```

    ```
    git checkout master
    git pull
    ```
2. Prepare the release:

    ```
    make VERSION=v0.6.0 cut-release
    ```

> Above command do the following things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command does the following:
```

>   - changes the images tag in the `charts/helm-broker/values.yaml` to `v0.6.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Changes the images tag in the `charts/helm-broker/values.yaml` to `v0.6.0`
```

>   - creates a commit with the changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Creates a commit with the changes
```

>   - creates a `v0.6.0` tag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Creates the `v0.6.0` tag
```

3. Push the release:

    ```
    git push {remote} v0.6.0
    ```

It triggers the Prow CI release job for Helm Broker.

> > **NOTE:** If you want to push the tag to the upstream, run the following command: ```git push upstream v0.6.0```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If you want to push the tag to the upstream, run `git push upstream v0.6.0`.
```

> 4. After Prow CI job finish, go to the **releases** tab where the new release appears. The new branch is available in the **branches** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After Prow CI job is finished, go to the **Releases** tab where the new release appears. The new branch is available in the **Branches** tab.
```

### Create a release from the release branch

Follow these steps to create a new `helm-broker` release 0.6.1:

1. Checkout the release branch with the latest changes. For example:

    ```
    git fetch {remote}
    git checkout release-0.6
    git pull
    ```

> 2. Commit your changes to the release branch `release-0.6`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Commit your changes to the `release-0.6` release branch.
```

> >**NOTE:** In order to have a complete changelog, create a Pull Requests to the release branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** In order to have a complete changelog, create a Pull Request to the release branch.
```

3. Prepare the release:

    ```
    make VERSION=v0.6.1 cut-release
    ```

>     Above command do the following things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This command does the following:
```

>       - changes the images tag in the `charts/helm-broker/values.yaml` to `v0.6.1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Changes the images tag in the `charts/helm-broker/values.yaml` to `v0.6.1`
```

>       - creates a commit with the changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Creates a commit with the changes
```

>       - creates a `v0.6.1` tag 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Creates the `v0.6.1` tag 
```

4. Push your changes with the tag:

    ```
    git push {remote} v0.6.1
    ```

> 5. After Prow CI job finish, go to the **releases** tab where the new `v0.6.1` release appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After Prow CI job is finished, go to the **Releases** tab where the new `v0.6.1` release appears.
```

## Changelog functionality

> Every time you create a new release, the changelog file is generated and it's placed in the release body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time you create a new release, the changelog file is generated. It is automatically added to the release body.
```

> Every changelog file contains a list of pull requests and issues from the period between the releases. It's generated by [github_changelog_generator](https://github.com/skywinder/Github-Changelog-Generator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every changelog file contains a list of Pull Requests and issues from the period between the releases. It is generated by the [github_changelog_generator](https://github.com/skywinder/Github-Changelog-Generator).
```

> You can configure the changelog generator in the `.github_changelog_generator` file according to the [github_changelog_generator](https://github.com/github-changelog-generator/github-changelog-generator#params-file) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to configure the changelog generator in the `.github_changelog_generator` file, read [this](https://github.com/github-changelog-generator/github-changelog-generator#params-file) document.
```

# Releases

This document describes how the release flow looks like and how to create an `helm-broker` release.

## Release process

Every change in the master branch which passes all checks creates the `latest` tag and triggers the release.

Every tag pushed to the repository triggers a new release.

### Create a release from the master branch

Follow these steps to create a new `helm-broker` release `v0.6.0`:

1. Checkout on master and pull the latest changes:

    ```
    git checkout master
    git pull
    ```
2. Prepare the release:

    ```
    make VERSION=v0.6.0 cut-release
    ```
Above command do the following things:
  - changes the images tag in the `charts/helm-broker/values.yaml` to `v0.6.0`
  - creates a commit with the changes
  - creates a `v0.6.0` tag

3. Push the release:

    ```
    git push {remote} v0.6.0
    ```

It triggers the Prow CI release job for Helm Broker.

    >**NOTE:** If you want to push the tag to the upstream, run the following command:
    >```
    >git push upstream v0.6.0

>     >```

Reviewer 2: IMO it better looks in one line:
` > **NOTE:** If you want to push the tag to the upstream, run the following command: ```git push upstream v0.6.0``` `
